The Unique Flavors of Bangladeshi Food

No Food, No Life

Bangladeshi people follow certain rules and regulations while eating. It includes warm hospitality and particular ways of serving as well. This is known as Bangaliketa (Bengali: বাঙালি কেতা). The culture also defines the way to invite people to weddings and for dinner. Gifts are given on certain occasions. Bangaliketa also includes presentation of serving utensils in a proper manner.

Deshi Food
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Bangladeshi_dishes

My Passion

My name is Porag and I’m an Bangladeshi who loves cooking, eating, and sharing my passion for good food with like-minded people. With my mum being an incredible cook, I grew up with top-notch traditional Bangla food. 

Contact Me
https://www.linkedin.com/in/samiul-islam-922ab1171/

My Favorites

I love to eat, so there are plenty of items which has been my favourites. If I had to narrow it down then I will come up with these three items.

Kacchi Biryani

Biriyani is a food that is common in South Asian countries, especially Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, etc. It is cooked with perfume rice, meat, ghee, hot spices. There are different types of biriyani. Such as: Kachchi Biryani, Echhar Biriyani, Biff Kopaa Biryani, Akheni Biryani, Nawabi Biriyani, Hilsa Fish Tum Biryani, Dakai Biryani, Mugdal Biryani, Sindhi Biryani etc.

Sorse Ilish

Hilsa is known to be as “queen of the fish”. It’s a very tasty and rich fish. This is not like other fishes that are available throughout the year. It is only available during monsoon. And this particular season is just celebrating like festivals in every Bengali house.
Though it’s so high in price, but Bengali don’t deprive themselves from eating this fish. It became kind of tradition that Bengali have to eat at least one fish to save their identity.

Bhuna Khichuri
A simple and a hearty comfort food that tastes so delicious any time specially during rain. It is a wholesome and a balanced meal in itself with the rice, lentils and the veggies. Just a spoon of ghee brings out the actual essence of this yummy dish. Nothing can beat having this humble khichuri along with some begun bhaja or fish fry.
